6.4.0: release notes (#3226)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/6.4/release-notes.md

---

## 6.4.0 release notes

**June 23, 2021** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 6.4.0, is now available for download. 

<!--// synopsis placeholder //-->

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 6.4.0.

**NEW FEATURES:**

- ([Commercial feature][215]) In the web UI, the system information modal now includes license expiration information, accessed via the `CTRL + .` keyboard shortcut, for users with the appropriate permissions.

> - Added binary-only distribution for [macOS arm64][216].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][215]) Added [page-specific configuration][221] options and a custom [sign-in message attribute][220] for the web UI.
- Added binary-only distribution for [macOS arm64][216].
```

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

> - ([Commercial feature][215]) Add the ability to configure certain parameters per page in the Web UI.

Reviewer: Mike, after learning a bit more about this item, I think it's better as a new feature. It adds a `page_parameters` object to the GlobalConfig resource for the web UI. I'm still collecting info to document it, but it is more substantial than I first thought. We should also add a bit to this description...pending the documentation.

Reviewer: OK, I know a bit more now and will add a suggested revision...

> - ([Commercial feature][215]) Add the ability to configure certain parameters per page in the Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Added [etcd-log-level configuration flag][217] for setting the log level for the embedded etcd server.
- Added [`wait` flag][218] for the `sensu-backend init` command, which indicates the backend should repeatedly try to establish a connection to etcd until it is successful.

> Also, the `timeout` flag for `sensu-backend init` is now treated as a duration instead of seconds, and values less than 1 second are converted to seconds.

Reviewer 2: We should tell people what the duration format is (10s, 5m type values) and we should also tell them that if they put an integer value, it will be interpreted as seconds. (This isn't strictly true, if they put any value over 1 billion it will be interpreted as nanoseconds, but I think fibbing a bit to improve clarity will be useful)

Reviewer: I need to add these details in the docs too

Author: @hillaryfraley do you have ideas for how to phrase this properly?

> - Added `sensu_go_keepalives` prometheus counter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added `sensu_go_keepalives` Prometheus metric to count keepalive statuses over time and help identify instability due to keepalive failure.
```

- Upgraded Go version from `1.13.15` to `1.16.5`.
- Upgraded etcd version from `3.3.22` to `3.5.0`.
Also, in etcd 3.5, some Prometheus metric names changed.
Read the [etcd documentation][219] for details.

**FIXES:**

- ([Commercial feature][215]) Selector statements that begin with quotes no longer cause an error if they follow the `&&` operator.
- ([Commercial feature][215]) Fixed a bug that allowed PostgresConfig resources to include a namespace attribute.
Also, invalid PostgresConfig resources can no longer be created.

> - Fixed a bug that could cause config deprecation warnings to be shown when deprecated config options weren't set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I suggest removing this one too

> Also, the `timeout` flag for `sensu-backend init` is now treated as a duration instead of seconds, and values less than 1 second are converted to seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `timeout` flag for `sensu-backend init` is now treated as a duration instead of seconds (example duration format is `10s` for 10 seconds or `5m` for 5 minutes).
Values less than 1 second and integer values will be interpreted as seconds.
```

Author: thank you!

**NEW FEATURES:**

- ([Commercial feature][215]) In the web UI, the system information modal now includes license expiration information, accessed via the `CTRL + .` keyboard shortcut, for users with the appropriate permissions.
- ([Commercial feature][215]) Added [page-specific configuration][221] options and a custom [sign-in message attribute][220] for the web UI.
- Added binary-only distribution for [macOS arm64][216].

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- Added [etcd-log-level configuration flag][217] for setting the log level for the embedded etcd server.
- Added [`wait` flag][218] for the `sensu-backend init` command, which indicates the backend should repeatedly try to establish a connection to etcd until it is successful.
- The `timeout` flag for `sensu-backend init` is now treated as a duration instead of seconds (example duration format is `10s` for 10 seconds or `5m` for 5 minutes).
Values less than 1 second and integer values will be interpreted as seconds.
- Added `sensu_go_keepalives` Prometheus metric to count keepalive statuses over time and help identify instability due to keepalive failure.
- Upgraded Go version from `1.13.15` to `1.16.5`.

> - Upgraded etcd version from `3.3.22` to `3.5.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upgraded etcd version from `3.3.22` to `3.5.0`.
As a result, **6.4.0 is not backward-compatible with previous Sensu versions**.
Read the [upgrade instructions][222] for details about creating a full etcd database backup before you upgrade to Sensu Go 6.4.0.
```

---

## 6.4.0 release notes

**June 23, 2021** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 6.4.0, is now available for download. 

<!--// synopsis placeholder //-->

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 6.4.0.

**NEW FEATURES:**

> - ([Commercial feature][207]) The system information modal in the Web UI now includes license expiration information, accessed via the `CTRL + .` keyboard shortcut.

Reviewer: Need to add a new commercial feature link for each minor version -- we use version-specific links in release notes rather than the `latest` canonical.

So in this case the link would be: `/sensu-go/6.4/commercial/`

> - ([Commercial feature][207]) The system information modal in the Web UI now includes license expiration information, accessed via the `CTRL + .` keyboard shortcut.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][207]) In the web UI, the system information modal now includes license expiration information, accessed via the `CTRL + .` keyboard shortcut, for users with the appropriate permissions.
```

> - Added `darwin/arm64` to the list of platforms we build sensu-agent & sensuctl for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added binary-only distribution for [macOS arm64][].
```

Reviewer: Add a link (bottom of this file) to `/sensu-go/6.4/platforms/#macos` to help people find this.

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

> - ([Commercial feature][207]) Remove extraneous auto-completion suggestions.

Reviewer: I would not include this item in the release notes -- I don't think it is something users need to know

> - ([Commercial feature][207]) Add the ability to configure certain parameters per page in the Web UI.

Reviewer: I think we need to enrich this a bit so that it provides more information for users, but I'm waiting to hear back from Engineering

> - Added etcd-log-level configuration flag for setting the log level of the embedded etcd server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added [etcd-log-level configuration flag][] for setting the log level for the embedded etcd server.
```

Reviewer: Link to /sensu-go/6.4/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/backend/#general-configuration-flags

> - Added API key authentication support to sensuctl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: API key auth for sensuctl was released in 6.3.0 -- it's incorrectly included in the 6.4.0 changelog

> - Added wait flag to the `sensu-backend init` command which toggles waiting indefinitely for etcd to become available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added [`wait` flag][] for the `sensu-backend init` command, which indicates the backend should repeatedly try to establish a connection to etcd until it is successful.
Also, the `timeout` flag for `sensu-backend init` is now treated as a duration instead of seconds, and values less than 1 second are converted to seconds.
```

Reviewer: Add this link: /sensu-go/6.4/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/backend/#initialization-timeout-and-wait-flags

- Added `sensu_go_keepalives` prometheus counter.
- Upgraded Go version from `1.13.15` to `1.16.5`.

> - Upgraded Etcd version from `3.3.22` to `3.5.0`.

Reviewer: I would list the Go and etcd version update items last in the list of improvements.

> - Upgraded Etcd version from `3.3.22` to `3.5.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upgraded etcd version from `3.3.22` to `3.5.0`.
Also, in etcd 3.5, some Prometheus metric names changed.
Read the [etcd documentation][] for details.
```

Reviewer: Move https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/metrics/etcd-metrics-latest.txt to a link at the bottom of the file

> - The loadit tool now uses `UUIDv4` instead of `UUIDv1` for agent names.

Reviewer: I would not include the loadit tool item in the release notes

> - Some Prometheus metric names have changed with the upgrade to Etcd 3.5. See the [Etcd documentation][https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/metrics/etcd-metrics-latest.txt] for the metrics that Etcd 3.5 exposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - The timeout flag for `sensu-backend init` is now treated as a duration instead of seconds. If the value is less than 1 second, the value is converted to seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**FIXES:**

> - ([Commercial feature][207]) Fixed string tokens being considered to be unexpected if they appeared right after the && operator in selector expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][207]) Selector statements that begin with quotes no longer cause an error if they follow the `&&` operator.
```

> - ([Commercial feature][207]) Invalid PostgresConfig resources can no longer be created.
> - ([Commercial feature][207]) PostgresConfig resources can no longer have a namespace attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][207]) Fixed a bug that allowed PostgresConfig resources to include a namespace attribute.
Also, invalid PostgresConfig resources can no longer be created.
```

- Fixed a bug that could cause config deprecation warnings to be shown when deprecated config options weren't set.

> - Fixed an issue with keepalive remaining in OK status after agent shutdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that resulted in OK keepalive status after shutting down the agent.
```

> - Fixed a bug where role bindings that refer to missing roles would cause the wrong status to be returned from the HTTP API, and the dashboard to go into a crash loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in role-based access control (RBAC) that caused incorrect HTTP API statuses and web UI crashes when role bindings referred to missing roles.
The API now returns status `403` with a message to explain that the referenced role is missing.
```

> - Fixed a bug where an empty subscription was present in the deregistration event's check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that prevented deregistration events from validating due to empty `event.check.subscriptions` arrays.
```

> - Fixed issue with Windows agent not handling command timeouts properly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that caused Windows agents to handle command timeouts improperly.
```

[212]: /sensu-go/6.3/api/health/#get-health-data-for-your-agent-transport
[213]: /sensu-go/6.3/observability-pipeline/observe-entities/#service-entities
[214]: /sensu-go/6.3/sensuctl/#global-flags
[215]: /sensu-go/6.4/commercial/
[216]: /sensu-go/6.4/platforms/#macos
[217]: /sensu-go/6.4/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/backend/#general-configuration-flags
[218]: /sensu-go/6.4/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/backend/#initialization-timeout-and-wait-flags

> [219]: https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/metrics/etcd-metrics-latest.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[219]: https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/metrics/etcd-metrics-latest.txt
[220]: /sensu-go/6.4/web-ui/webconfig-reference/#sign-in-message
[221]: /sensu-go/6.4/web-ui/webconfig-reference/#page-preferences-attributes
```

[212]: /sensu-go/6.3/api/health/#get-health-data-for-your-agent-transport
[213]: /sensu-go/6.3/observability-pipeline/observe-entities/#service-entities
[214]: /sensu-go/6.3/sensuctl/#global-flags
[215]: /sensu-go/6.4/commercial/
[216]: /sensu-go/6.4/platforms/#macos
[217]: /sensu-go/6.4/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/backend/#general-configuration-flags
[218]: /sensu-go/6.4/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/backend/#initialization-timeout-and-wait-flags
[219]: https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/metrics/etcd-metrics-latest.txt
[220]: /sensu-go/6.4/web-ui/webconfig-reference/#sign-in-message

> [221]: /sensu-go/6.4/web-ui/webconfig-reference/#page-preferences-attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[221]: /sensu-go/6.4/web-ui/webconfig-reference/#page-preferences-attributes
[222]: /sensu-go/6.4/operations/maintain-sensu/upgrade/#upgrade-to-sensu-go-640-from-any-previous-version
```
